---
title: Front Matter
subtitle:
authors: [Ryan Watters]
draft: false
date: 2016-09-03
publishdate: 2016-09-03
updated: 2016-09-03
description: Learn how to add the appropriate metadata or front matter to your content/markdown files.
weight: 09
image:
categories: []
tags: []
isdoc: true
aliases: []
removefromsearch: true
comments:
---

## Introduction to Front Matter and YAML

Adding front matter to your markdown is the equivalent of adding metadata to a page in a content management system. Front matter for content files is written in [YAML][] (*yaml ain't markup language*), a serialized data format designed to be highly readable for humans.

YAML front matter is composed of key-value pairs separated by a colon. The front matter as a whole is delimited by an opening and closing set of triple dashes (`---`).

For example, the following YAML...

{{% code "yaml-code-example" "yaml-code-example.md" %}}
```yaml
---
title: This is My Content's Title
subtitle: This is my content's subtitle
publishdate: 2016-09-30
description: Here is a description of my article.
---
```
{{% /code %}}

...is really the equivalent of the following in a CMS:

<div class="output">
   <label for="title">Title:</label><input type="text" name="title" id="title" value="This is My Content's Title"><br>
   <label for="subtitle">Subtitle:</label><input type="text" name="subtitle" id="subtitle" value="This is my content's subtitle"><br>
   <label for="publishdate">Publish Date: </label><input type="date" name="publishdate" id="publishdate" value="2016-09-30"><br>
   <label for="description">Description: </label><br>
   <textarea name="description" id="docs-description" style="width:90%;max-width:90%;" rows="4" value="Here is a description of my article." placeholder="Here is a description of my article."></textarea>
</div>

Thinking of front matter as a form at the top of your content file will make it easier for you to manage. If you are using the site's [editor][] on a desktop, the front matter is generated by the inputs and values in the left column of the editor page.

{{% note title="Options for Working with Front Matter" %}}
Options for creating content and front matter for this site are intentionally flexible. That said, if you are uncomfortable using a text editor, your best bet is to use the site's [editor](/editor) to generate front matter since it helps control errors in a more familiar, user-friendly UI.
{{% /note %}}

## Front Matter Templates

Front matter for both [content types][] is nearly identical. If you are creating your front matter manually in a text editor, you can use the following templates to copy and paste the required front matter values in the top of your `.md` via the the "<i class="icon-clipboard"></i> COPY" button.

### Default Booleans, Numbers, and Dates

You'll notice that both templates include `YYYY-MM-DD` in the `date`, `publishdate`, and `updated` values. This is only a guide to remind you to fill out all 3 values in ISO format. If this is a new piece of content, you can set all 3 keys to the same value (ie, the same date).

`draft` is also set to `true` on the assumption that you don't want to immediately publish the content (see [the publishing schedule](#publishing-schedule) section for more information on draft status).

For documentation pages, `weight` has a default value of `NN` to remind you that the field should be set to a two-digit numeric even if the value is only a single-digit number (eg, `07` and not `7`).


{{% note title="Formatting & Spacing" %}}
Like markdown, YAML is somewhat sensitive to spacing. Be sure to leave a space between your colon and the value you are adding in the yaml. So, `title: My Title` is acceptable YAML, but `title:My Title` (without a space before `My`) is not. The [editor](/editor) will make this easier for you when you're creating content.

In addition to spacing, you can format multi-value keys in one more than one way. This is especially helpful for keys such as `aliases`. Instead of keeping multiple values in a single comma-delimited list, you can separate the values with a hyphen and indent each value with a couple spaces. In other words, the following are both acceptable YAML:

```yaml
aliases: [/hello, /goodbye, /so-long, /farewell]
```
And...
```yaml
aliases:
  - /hello
  - /goodbye
  - /so-long
  - /farewell
```
{{% /note %}}

### Documentation Front Matter Template

{{% code "documentation-front-matter-template" "documentation-front-matter-template.md" %}}
```yaml
---
title:
subtitle:
description:
weight: NN
showchapter: false
date: YYYY-MM-DD
publishdate: YYYY-MM-DD
updated: YYYY-MM-DD
authors: []
categories: []
tags: []
draft: true
isdoc: true
removefromsearch: false
aliases:
comments:
---
<!-- Include your body copy in markdown below this line -->
```
{{% /code %}}

### Blog Post Front Matter Template

{{% code "blog-post-front-matter-template" "blog-post-front-matter-template.md" %}}
```yaml
---
title:
subtitle:
description:
removetoc: false
image:
date: YYYY-MM-DD
publishdate: YYYY-MM-DD
updated: YYYY-MM-DD
authors: []
categories: []
tags: []
draft: true
isdoc: false
removefromsearch: false
aliases:
comments:
---
<!-- Include your body copy in markdown below this line -->
```
{{% /code %}}

## Front Matter Explained

Most of the front matter key&ndash;value pairs are easy to grok, but some may seem unfamiliar, especially if you are unfamiliar with [static site generators][]:

1. `title`. This is the title of your piece. Keep this to 90 characters or less.
2. `subtitle`. This is the subtitle to your piece. In documentation pages, the subtitle does not currently write to the page. However, you should still include a subtitle for *every* page for posterity.
3. `description`. Keep your description to 160 characters or less. When writing your description, think of the text used in a search engine result. Be succinct and clear about what your read should expect from this piece of content.
4. `weight` (**Documentation only**). The content's `weight` is the equivalent of a chapter number and is used to sort the content in the context of a list of related content. For example, `weight` is used to sort the pages in this theme documentation.
5. `showchapter` (**Documentation only**). `showchapter` piggybacks on `weight` for documentation pages. If you set the value of `showchapter` to true, the chapter number (ie, `weight`) will write to the page to the left of the content's title.
6. `removetoc` (**Blog Post Only**). You can find out more in [table of contents][] section. However, know that the default value is `removetoc: false`. Only set `removetoc` to `true` if you are certain you do not want to include a scrolling TOC in the final layout.
7. `image` (**Blog Post Only**). You only need to include the file name for the image you are using for your hero.
7. `date`, `publishdate`, and `updated`. All dates should be set in ISO `YYYY-MM-DD` format. If you are creating a new page, you can set all three dates to the same value. Here is an explanation of the three different fields:
    * `date`. This is the date you are creating the piece of content.
    * `publishdate`. This is the date the page should be added to the live site. If the date is set in the future of when the content is added to GitHub (and therefore the build system), the content will not be published.
    * `updated`. This should be set to the same date as `publishdate` unless you are revising an old piece of content and you want the content to be marked as "updated" to the end user.
8. `authors`. This can take 1 or more team member names, which are indexed by the system and pulled from the [team][] section. For more information on categories, see [taxonomies][].
9. `categories`. Similar to tags, categories are indexed by the system if you are using the site's [editor][]. This can take 1 or more values, although you should try to limit your content to a single category when possible, and use caution when adding additional categories. For more information on categories, see [taxonomies][].
10. `tags`. If you are using the site's [editor][], tags are indexed by the system. This helps prevent duplication. That said, `tags` is an instance of a [folksonomy][], so you have more freedom to add whatever tags are appropriate for the content. For more information on tags, see [taxonomies][].
12. `draft`. If using the editor, `draft` is set to `true` by default. `draft` is tied directly to the [publishing schedule][].
13. `isdoc`. This is added to let the build system know to add this content to the documentation layout. It is set to `true` by default for documentation content (eg, the page you're reading right now) and `false` for blog posts.
14. `removefromsearch`. The default value added to this field is `false` under the assumption that you are not trying to remove your new content from the site search. However, you may want to set this to true if adding content to the site that you don't want to make readily available to external business users.
15. `comments`. `comments` will never write to the page. This key-value is there for you to write comments that might provide value to future editors and writers, including yourself.
16. <code id="aliases">aliases</code>. `aliases` gives you greater control over redirects. For example, let's say you create a blog post titled "My Blog Post" and save it to the file `my-blog-post.md`. This page is going to render at `your-site/blog/my-blog-posts/.` There may come a time where you completely rewrite this content and decide to change the title to "My New Blog Post," and you therefore want to rename the file to `my-new-blog-post.md` so that the URL changes to `your-site/blog/my-new-blog-post/`. However, doing so will break all links to the previous page. This is where `aliases` come into play:
    * Rename `my-blog-post.md` to `my-new-blog-post.md` and then set `aliases: ["/blog/my-blog-post"]`. Then if a user clicks on a link to `your-site/blog/my-blog-post`, she will be immediately redirected to `your-site/blog/my-new-blog-post` and circumvent a 404 error.

[content types]: #content-types
[team]: /team
[editor]: /editor
[folksonomy]: #taxonomies
[publishing schedule]: #publishing-schedule
[static site generators]: https://www.staticgen.com
[table of contents]: #table-of-contents
[taxonomies]: #taxonomies
[YAML]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML